Hi, everyone.
This lecture will be about reproducible
research, and I want to
just talk about some concepts and ideas
that are, that
are related to reproducible research and
in, just in case
you haven't heard about it or don't know
what it is.
So the basic idea is that in science,
replication is the most important element
of kind of verifying and validating
findings that a scientist discover.
So if you claim that
x causes y, or that Vitamin C improves
disease, or that this causes a problem.
What happens is that, you know, other
scientists that are independent of the
original.
Will, will try to investigate that same
question and
see if they come up with the same result.
And if lots of different people come up
with the
same result and replicate the original
finding, then we can
tend to think that, well, the original was
probably true
and that this is a real relationship or
real finding.
So the
ultimate standard in strengthening
scientific evidence is replication.
And we, and the goal is to
have independent people to do independent
things with
different data, different methods, and
different laboratories
and see if you get the same result.
Because if a finding is robust to all
these different things then it
is more likely to be true and the evidence
is stronger in it's favor.
Replication is particularly important in
studies that have, kind
of had big policy impacts or can influence
regulatory types
of decisions.
So, what's wrong with replication?
So there's really nothing wrong with it.
This is what science has been doing for a
long time through hundreds of years.
And there's nothing wrong with it today.
But the problem is that it's very, it's
becoming
more and more challenging to do
replication or to
replicate other studies and because and
part of the
reason is because studies are getting
bigger and bigger.
In order to do big studies you need a lot
of money and so there's a lot of money
involved and if you want to do ten
versions of the same study, you need ten
times as much money and there's not as
much money around as there used to be.
[COUGH] sometimes it's just, it's
difficult to replicate
a study because you know, if the original
study took 20 years to do, it's difficult
to wait around another 20 years for
replication.
So that can be a, a challenge.
Some studies are just plain unique.
So if you're looking at a unique situation
in time or a unique population,
you can't readily replicate that
situation.
So, there are a lot of good reasons why
you can't replicate a study.
And so the idea said, well, if you can't
replicate it is
the alternative just to do nothing, just
let that study stand by itself?
And so the idea behind a reproducible
research is to create a kind
of minimum standard or a middle ground
where we won't be replicating the study,
but maybe we can do something in between.
So the basic problem is, you know, you
have the gold standard, which is, which
is replication and then you have the, kind
of the, the worst standard which is
nothing.
And so, what can we do that's in between
the
gold standard and nothing, and that's
where we're thinking is reproducibility.
So, that's how we can kind of bridge the
gap between replication and nothing.
So, why do we need this kind of middle
ground, which I haven't clearly
defined yet, but the basic idea is that,
you know, you
make the data available for the original
study, and you make the
computational methods available so that
other people can can, can look at
your data and cam run the kind of analysis
that you've run.
And to kind of come, come to the same
findings that you found.
And so a lot of this, what reproducible
research
is about is a validation of the data
analysis.
Because you're not collecting independent
data
using independent methods, you can, it's
a little bit more difficult to validate
the, the question itself that
you're asking, but if you can take
someone's data and repli, and
reproduce their findings, then you can in
some sense validate the data analysis.
And so this involves having the data and
the code because, you know, most, more
likely than
not, the analysis will have been done on
the
computer using some sort of programming
language like R.
And so you can take their code and their
data and reproduce the findings that they
come up with, then you can at least
have confidence that the analysis was done
appropriately.
And and that the correct methods were
done, were used excuse me.
So what is driving this need for a middle
ground, this reproducibility middle ground
between replication and doing nothing?
Well, there's a lot of new technologies on
the scene and in many different fields
including, biology
and chemistry and environmental science,
all kinds of areas.
These technology allow us to collect data
at a much higher throughput.
And so we get these very complex and very
high dimensional data sets.
Almost instantaneously compared to even
just ten years ago.
And so, the technology has allowed us to
create huge
data sets, at a, at essentially the touch
of a button.
furthermore, we have computing power that
allows us to take on
existing databases and merge them into,
just, even bigger and bigger databases.
So we can take data that were previously,
maybe,
inaccessible and create new data sets out
of it.
So these new data sets are huge now.
and, in addition to allowing us to create
new data sets
computing power allows us to, to to do
more sophisticated analysis.
So the analysis themselves, the models
that we fit and
the algorithms that we run, are much much
more complicated than they use to be.
And so, having a basic understanding of
these
algorithms is difficult, even for a
sophisticated person.
So, understanding what someone did in an
analysis of data will
require looking at code, looking at the
computer programs that people used.
And so the, and so the bottom line with
all these different
trends is that for every field x, there is
now computational x.
There's computational biology,
computational
astronomy, computational whatever is
you want, there is a computational version
of it.
So one example from research that I've
conducted
is in the area of air pollution and
health.
Now air pollution and health is a, is a
big field and it, and it involves
a kind of, is a confluence of features
that make reproducibility very important
in this area.
The first that we're estimating very
small,
but very important public health effects
in the presence of a much stronger signal.
So you can think about air pollution as
something that's,
you know, perhaps harmful but even if it
were harmful
there are many other things that are
going, that are
going to be more harmful that you have to
worry about.
So pollution is going to be, not at the
very top of the list that's going to harm
you.
The results of a lot of air
pollution research inform kind of
substantial policy decisions.
Regulations will
be based on scientific research in this
area.
And so these regulations can affect a lot
of stakeholders
and, and furthermore, can cost billions of
dollars to implement.
Finally, we use a lot of complex
statistical methods to do a lot
of these stedies and so, and these
statistical methods are subjected to
intense scrutiny.
So combinations of an, of an inherently
small signal large impacts, and complex
statistical methods
almost require that the research that we
do be reproducible.
And so one of the things that we've done
and here at John's
Hopkins is to create what's called the
Internet-based Health and Air Pollution
Surveillance System.
We make a lot of our data available, we
make a
lot of our statistical methods in the form
of R code
available so that they can be examined,
and the data, and
many of the results that we produce can be
reproduced by others.